CLASSIC FOLLICULAR LYMPHOMA, LOW GRADE
H&E-stained sections show fragments of a dense atypical lymphoid proliferation in a vaguely nodular pattern. The infiltrate is composed primarily of small to intermediate sized lymphoid cells with round to irregular/cleaved nuclei, condensed chromatin, indistinct nucleoli, and scant cytoplasm. Admixed are scattered larger centroblastic cells which average less than 15/HPF. No sheets of large cells, necrosis or granulomata are seen.

Immunohistochemical stains performed at your institution and/or BC Cancer show the atypical lymphocytes are CD20+ PAX5+ B cells which co-express CD10, BCL6, BCL2 (clone E17 only) and CD23, and are negative for CD5 and Cyclin D1. These cells appear weakly kappa light chain restricted by immunohistochemistry. CD3 and CD5 highlight small background T cells. CD21 highlights follicular dendritic cell meshworks throughout the infiltrate. An IgG4 immunostain is negative. The Ki67 proliferative index averages 20%.

In summary, the findings are in keeping with recurrence of the previously diagnosed classic follicular lymphoma, here showing a low histologic grade (2017 WHO grade 1/2 of 3). There is no evidence of transformation to an aggressive lymphoma in this specimen. Correlation with clinical and imaging findings and the results of other laboratory studies is recommended for full evaluation.



CLASSIC FOLLICULAR LYMPHOMA, GRADE 3A
Thank you for referring this interesting case to the BC Cancer Lymphoma Group for diagnostic consultation.

H&E-stained sections of the core biopsies show lymphoid tissue containing an atypical lymphoid infiltrate in a nodular pattern. Atypical lymphocytes include a population of small to intermediate-sized centrocytes with angulated nuclei, condensed chromatin and scant cytoplasm. In nodular areas these are admixed with frequent large centroblastic cells which average greater than 15/HPF. Scattered mitotic figures are seen in these nodular areas. No sheets of large cells, necrosis or granulomata are present.

Immunohistochemical stains performed on blocks A1 and A2 at your institution and/or BC Cancer show the large lymphoid cells are CD20+ PAX5+ B-cells which coexpress CD10, BCL6 and BCL2(diffuse). They are negative for Cyclin D1, c-MYC(10%), MUM1(10%) and CD30. CD3 highlights small background T cells. CD21 highlights frequent follicular dendritic cell meshworks throughout the infiltrate. The Ki67 proliferative within follicles averages 30-40%, and is elsewhere low.

Flow cytometry (BF24-4087) performed at BC Cancer shows the lymphoid gate accounts for 88% of total events. Overall specimen viability is 83%. B-cells account for 60% of the lymphoid gate. Accounting for approx. all B-cells is an immunophenotypically abnormal CD19+, CD20+, CD5-, CD10+, CD11c-, CD23-, CD24+, CD25-, CD27+, CD30-, CD38+, CD79b+, CD103-, CD123-, CD200-, IgM+, HLA DR+, HLA ABC+, surface kappa-restricted population of cells.

In summary, the findings are consistent with a diagnosis of classic follicular lymphoma showing grade 3A histology. There is no evidence of grade 3B histology or of transformation to an aggressive lymphoma in this core biopsy specimen, however if there is clinical concern for aggressive disease, an excisional biopsy of a suspicious lesion is recommended for further assessment. Correlate with clinical and imaging findings and the results of other laboratory studies for full evaluation.


CONSISTENT WITH FOLLICULAR LYMPHOMA, GRADE 3A
The biopsy shows features of follicular lymphoma, grade 3A.  However, this is a limited biopsy that may not be fully representative of the entire lesion.  Clinical and radiologic correlation is needed.

The gastric mucosa shows extensive infiltration of the lamina propria by a mixed infiltrate of small irregular lymphocytes and large centroblastic cells.  The large centroblasts number greater than 15 per high power field in several areas.  Immunohistochemical stains performed at Richmond Hospital show that the cells are diffusely positive for CD20 and have a moderate growth fraction on MIB1 stain, with some areas up to 60%.  Additional stains performed at BC Cancer show that the cells are positive for CD19, BCL6, LMO2, and BCL2.  They are negative for CD10, CD5, Cyclin D1, and SOX11.  A CD21 stain shows follicular dendritic cell meshworks throughout the lymphoma.


FOLLICULAR LYMPHOMA, GRADE 1-2
The biopsy shows a dense infiltrate predominantly consisting of small irregular lymphocytes.  Flow cytometry showed a lambda clonal B cell population expressing CD10.  Immunohistochemical stains performed at Royal Columbian Hospital show a dense infiltrate of B cells that are positive for CD20 and CD10.  The B cells are negative for CD5 and Cyclin D1.  The infiltrate has a moderate growth fraction on MIB1 stain (50-60%).  Additional immunohistochemical stains performed at BC Cancer show that the cells are positive for BCL6.  The cells appear to be variably positive for BCL2.  They are negative for SOX11.  A CD21 stain confirms follicular architecture throughout the biopsy.



MASS, LEFT KIDNEY, CORE BIOPSY:
     LOW-GRADE FOLLICULAR LYMPHOMA.
Microscopic examination of the submitted material reveals small cores of skeletal muscle and adipose tissue that contain an abnormal lymphoid proliferation in a follicular pattern.  Atypical lymphocytes are mostly small and consistent with centrocytes.  Large centroblasts are rare.  Kidney parenchyma is not seen.

Immunohistochemical stains performed by your laboratory and at BC Cancer (Block 1A) show the atypical lymphocytes are CD45+, CD19+, CD20+, PAX5+ B-cells that are positive for CD10, BCL6, BCL2, and CD23; and negative for cyclin D1 and CD30.  The proliferation index, by Ki-67 staining, is approximately 5%.  CD21 highlights follicular dendritic cell meshworks within follicles.  CD3 highlights small T-cells in a reactive pattern. Stains for AE1/3 and S100 are negative 

Overall, the findings are consistent with a diagnosis of low-grade follicular lymphoma.


LYMPH NODE, RETROPERITONEAL (EXCISIONAL BIOPSY):
- CLASSIC FOLLICULAR LYMPHOMA, LOW GRADE (see comment).
H&E-stained sections show profiles of a lymph node with architectural effacement by abnormal follicles of varying size. These follicles lack well-defined mantle zones and contain predominantly small to medium-sized centrocytic-appearing cells with round to angulated nuclear contours, condensed chromatin and scant pale cytoplasm. Larger centroblasts average less than 15 per high-powered field. Sheets of large cells, necrosis or granulomata are not seen.

Immunohistochemical stains performed on block 1A at your institution and BC Cancer show the atypical lymphocytes are CD20+ PAX5+ B cells which co-express CD10, BCL6 and BCL2, and are negative for CD5 and Cyclin D1. These cells show lambda light chain restriction by immunohistochemistry. CD3 and CD5 highlight T cells in a reactive, predominantly interfollicular distribution. CD23 highlights variably preserved follicular dendritic cell meshworks underlying the abnormal follicles. The Ki67 proliferative index averages 30% in follicles.

Flow cytometry (BF24-4411) performed at BC Cancer shows the lymphoid gate accounts for 95% of total events. B-cells account for 72% of the lymphoid gate. Accounting for approx. 93% of B-cells is an immunophenotypically abnormal CD19+, CD20+, CD5-, CD10+, CD11c-, CD23-, CD24+, CD25-, CD27+, CD30(small subset)+, CD38+, CD79b+, CD103-, CD123-, CD200-, IgM+, HLA DR+, HLA ABC(dim)+, surface lambda population of cells.

In summary, the biopsy shows involvement by a classic follicular lymphoma of low histologic grade (2017 WHO grade 1/2 of 3). There is no evidence of transformation to an aggressive lymphoma in this specimen. Correlate with clinical and imaging findings and the results of other laboratory studies for full evaluation.


LYMPH NODE, LEFT GROIN (CORE BIOPSIES):
- CLASSIC FOLLICULAR LYMPHOMA, LOW-GRADE
H&E stained sections show core biopsies of lymphoid tissue containing an atypical lymphoid infiltrate in a nodular pattern. Atypical lymphocytes are predominantly small to medium-sized centrocytic-appearing cells with angulated/cleaved nuclear contours, condensed chromatin and scant cytoplasm. Larger centroblasts number less than 15 per high-powered field. Sheets of large cells, necrosis or granulomata are not seen.

Immunohistochemical stains performed on block A1 at your institution and/or BC Cancer show the atypical lymphocytes are CD20+ PAX5+ B cells which co-express CD10, BCL6, LMO2 and BCL2, and are negative for CD5 and Cyclin D1. CD3 and CD5 highlight small background T cells. CD21 highlights follicular dendritic cell meshworks in nodular areas of the infiltrate. The Ki67 proliferative index averages 30% in follicles.

Flow cytometry (BF24-4290) performed on fresh tissue at BC Cancer shows 89% of total events to reside within the CD45+/CD14-/low side scatter lymphoid gate. B-cells account for 74% of the lymphoid gate. Accounting for 93% of B-cells is a phenotypically abnormal CD19+, CD20+, CD79b+, IgM+, CD5-, CD10+(subset), CD23+(partial), CD200-, CD11c-, CD25-, CD103-, CD123+(dim), CD24+(dim), CD27+, CD38+, CD30-, HLA-ABC+, HLA-DR+, surface kappa light chain restricted population of cells.


LYMPH NODE, RIGHT AXILLARY (CORE BIOPSIES):
- FOLLICULAR LYMPHOMA, GRADE 1/2 OF 3 (see comment).

H&E stained sections show a core biopsy of lymphoid tissue containing a nodular atypical lymphoid infiltrate composed of predominantly small to medium-sized centrocytic-appearing cells with round to angulated nuclear contours, condensed chromatin and scant pale cytoplasm. Larger centroblasts number less than 15 per high-powered field. Sheets of large cells, necrosis or granulomata are not seen.

Immunohistochemical stains performed on block 1A at your institution and/or BC Cancer show the atypical lymphocytes are CD20+ CD19+ PAX5+ B cells which co-express CD10, BCL6 and BCL2, and are negative for CD5 and Cyclin D1. CD3 and CD5 highlight small background T cells. CD21 highlights variably preserved follicular dendritic cell meshworks in nodular areas of the infiltrate. The Ki67 proliferative index is 20%.

In summary, the biopsy shows involvement by a classic follicular lymphoma of low histologic grade (2017 WHO grade 1/2 of 3). There is no evidence of transformation to an aggressive lymphoma in this core biopsy specimen, however if there is clinical concern for aggressive disease, an excisional biopsy of a suspicious lesion is recommended for further assessment. Correlate with clinical and imaging findings and the results of other laboratory studies for full evaluation.