DIAGNOSIS:
EBV+DLBCL. Suspicious for a composite low grade Follicular Lymphoma	

H&E-stained sections show core biopsies of an atypical lymphoid infiltrate in a diffuse pattern. Significant areas of this infiltrate are composed of sheets of large cells with oval nuclear contours, pale chromatin with prominent central nucleoli and a moderate amount of pale amphophilic cytoplasm. Increased mitoses and scattered karyorrhectic debris are seen within these areas. In other portions of the biopsy, these cells are admixed with a variable background of small mature lymphocytes and histiocytes. Occasional Hodgkin/Reed-Sternberg like forms are present. In some areas a population of atypical small to medium-sized centrocytic lymphocytes predominates, admixed with fewer large atypical lymphocytes averaging less than 15 per high-powered field as well as scattered histiocytes. Focally these areas have a vaguely nodular appearance, but no definite follicular architecture is evident.

Immunohistochemical stains performed at your institution and/or BC Cancer on blocks A1 and A2 show that the atypical large lymphocytes are CD20+ PAX5+ B cells which coexpress BCL6, MUM1(favor 30%), BCL2 and EBER(ish). They are negative for CD10, c-MYC(<40%), CD5 and Cyclin D1. They also show subset expression of CD23 and CD30(weak/variable). Areas of the infiltrate composed primarily of small to medium-sized lymphocytes contain a mixture of CD20+ PAX5+ B-cells and CD3+ CD5+ T-cells, with a predominance of B-cells. These smaller cells are positive for CD10, BCL6(weak), BCL2 and CD23(diffuse), while negative for MUM1, c-MYC and Cyclin D1. These areas are also mainly negative for EBER(ish), which highlights only few scattered cells in some foci. An immunostain for CD21 demonstrates an absence of follicular dendritic cell meshworks throughout the infiltrate. The Ki67 proliferative index of the large cells is approximately 70%, while areas containing mostly smaller lymphocytes show a variable proliferative index averaging 20%.

Per report, concurrent flow cytometry performed at St. Paul's Hospital showed "an abnormal B cell population characterized by moderate forward scatter and expression of CD19, CD20, CD10, CD38(dim), CD23, CD200, with surface lambda light chain expression. There is no significant expression of CD5 or CD11c on these cells."
