Diagnosis
Needle biopsy of left supraclavicular lymph node: without pathologic findings of note
Clinical History
Order Comments: To rulo out PTLD
Gross Description
The specimen is labeled with the patient's name and as "Lymph node biopsy, lymph node left supraclavicular"
Microscopic Description
This lymph node shows a preserved architecture. The cortex is hypoplastic and shows one small secondary follicles and other primary follicles. The paracortex is equally hypoplastic, and shows only small lymphoid cells. Medullary chords show a sprinkling with plasma cells, and some scattered iron-pigment containing macrophages. Atypical cells are not seen.
Immunohistochemistry:
Germinal centre cells: CD20+, BCL2-, BCL6+
Mantle cells: CD20+, BCL2+, BCL6+
Plasma cells: polytypic for IGK and IGL
T cells: CD3+
EBER(ISH) positive cells are not seen.



Diagnosis
Needle biopsy of left leg lymph node: fibrous tissue with hematoma, see comment
Comment
Lymph node tissue is not present. The tissue seems to consists of a capsule surrounding an organizing hematoma.
Microscopic Description
This tissue shows a fibrous capsule with focal infiltration with scattered plasma cells, lymphoid cells and iron-loaded macrophages. This tissue seems to encapsulate an organizing hematoma.
Flow cytometry analysis (see addendum): not contributory
Interpretation
Flow cytometry analysis of lymph node (lymphoid cells screening): few lymphoid cells present, predominantly small T-cells, very few B-cells and NK cells. Further analysis is not possible.

DIAGNOSIS
Lymph node, left leg, needle biopsy:
– Fibrous tissue with organizing hematoma; no lymph node tissue identified (see comment).

COMMENT
No lymph node tissue is present in the biopsy. The specimen consists of fibrous capsular-type tissue surrounding an organizing hematoma. Flow cytometry is non-contributory due to the paucity of lymphoid cells.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION
Sections show fibrous capsular tissue with focal infiltrates of scattered plasma cells, small lymphoid cells, and hemosiderin-laden macrophages. The tissue appears to surround an organizing hematoma. No lymph node parenchyma is identified.



Diagnosis
Needle biopsies of portal lymph node: fibrous and lymphoid tissue without evidence of neoplasia
Comment
Whether or not these biopsies are representative of the lesion, needs clinical correlation.
Clinical History
Order Comments: 35F with 40mm portal node. EUS guided biopsies of node with Acquire 22g needle. Four passes without suction placed in formalin for pathology evaluation. Two passes without suction placed in saline for flow cytometry.
Gross Description
1. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "Lymph Node Biopsy, EUS guided biopsies of portal node in formalin for pathology evaluation" consists of 4 cores of red tan tissue measuring from 0.5-0.7 cm in length and 0.05 cm in diameter received in 10% buffered formalin.
1A- 1B- submitted in toto
2. The specimen labeled with the patient's name and as "Lymph-Node: Lymph Node Biopsy, EUS guided biopsies of portal node. In saline for flow cytometry." consists of 2 cores of red and tan tissue measuring 0.2 and 1.0 cm in length and 0.1 cm in diameter received in saline.
2A- 2B- submitted in toto in 10% neutral buffered formalin
Microscopic Description
The biopsies consist of fibrous tissue and fragments of lymphoid tissue with apparent unremarkable architecture and without atypical cells. Stains for CD20 and CD3 highlight the unremarkable architecture.
Addendum Status: Signed Out
Addendum Comment
There is also some normal duodenal mucosa in the materials.
The diagnosis remains unchanged.


Diagnosis
Fine needle biopsy of right parotid gland (consultation materials from Scarborough Health Network): unremarkable parotid gland with (intraparotid?) lymph node with lymphoid hyperplasia
Comment
Thank you for sharing the biopsy.
There is no evidence of neoplasia in this biopsy.
Microscopic Description
The biopsy shows salivary gland with unremarkable features as well as an attached lymph node with preserved architecture of capsule, cortex, paracortex and sinuses. Some scattered macrophages with iron are seen. Atypical lymphoid cells or other atypical cells are not seen. Scattered plasma cells are present.
Immunohistochemistry: staining for CD20 and CD3 highlights a normal distribution of small B and small T cells. Plasma cells are polytypic for IGK and IGL. BCL6 and BCL2 stain primary follicles. Secondary follicles are not present.


