DIAGNOSIS

Inguinal Lymph Node Core Biopsy, Right
- FOLLICULAR LYMPHOMA, FOLLICULAR GROWTH PATTERN, PRELIMINARY GRADE 1-2 OF 3. Please see comment.

COMMENT

The overall histologic and immunophenotypic findings support a diagnosis of follicular lymphoma, predominantly present in a follicular pattern. Based on the paucity of large cells (less than 15/hpf), the process is classified as low-grade (W.H.O. Grade 1-2 of 3) per the current W.H.O. classification (revised 4th edition, 2017). However, this is a preliminary grading to help inform clinical decision making, definitive grading would require an excisional biopsy. Diagnostic histologic features of involvement by a high-grade or large cell lymphoma are not seen in the sections examined. Correlation with clinical and laboratory findings is advised.

MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

Sections from the core biopsies reveal the lymph node architecture is diffusely effaced by a predominantly nodular atypical lymphoid proliferation composed primarily of small to intermediate sized lymphoid cells with round to irregular, cleaved nuclei, condensed chromatin, indistinct nucleoli, and a small amount of eosinophilic cytoplasm. Admixed are larger cells with oval to irregular nuclei, vesicular chromatin, prominent nucleoli, and a moderate amount of eosinophilic cytoplasm, consistent with centroblasts (less than 15 per HPF).

IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY 

The lymphocytes are positive for CD20, CD10, BCL6, and BCL2.  They are negative for CD5, CD21, CD43, MUM1 and Cyclin D1.
CD3 and CD5 highlight interspersed small T cells predominantly in interfollicular zones. 
CD21 highlights expanded, but intact, follicular dendritic cell meshwork. 
The Ki67 proliferation index is overall 30% with focally higher areas (__).

FLOW CYTOMETRY

Flow cytometry performed at Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre:
Specimen Integrity:  
Specimen Cellularity:  
Specimen Viability:  

Interpretation:  Bone marrow aspirate, flow cytometric analysis:

Flow cytometric immunophenotyping shows 

Please see scanned Flow Cytometry Report for detailed flow cytometric analysis.

Flow Cytometry Report Accession No

