DIAGNOSIS

Lymph Node, Biopsies, Left Supraclavicular Node:
- Well-formed non-necrotizing granuloma, please see comment.
- Negative for evidence of a lymphoproliferative disorder.
- Negative for microorganisms by PASD, GMS and ZN special stains.

COMMENT

The findings are of well-formed non-necrotizing/sarcoid like granulomas within the lymph node tissue. By morphology and immunophenotype there is no evidence of involvement by a lymphoproliferative disorder. The differential diagnosis would include sarcoidosis, infection (negative special stains do not rule out infectious etiologies), autoimmune conditions, and drugs. Correlation with clinical information is advised.


MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

Sections from the core biopsies show well formed (tight) non-necrotizing granulomas comprised of histiocytes with giant cell formation. Within the granulomas there is a paucity of lymphocytes. The lymphocytes surrounding the granulomas are comprised of small cells with round nuclei, condensed chromatin and inconspicuous nucleoli.

Immunohistochemistry

CD3 highlights small T cells and CD20 and PAX5 highlight small B cells with occasional germinal centers seen.
CD30 highlights occasional centroblasts.

Special stains
GMS, PASD and ZN are negative for microorganisms.

Flow cytometry performed at Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre:
Specimen Integrity:  Acceptable
Specimen Cellularity:  Suboptimal - low cellularity
Specimen Viability:  Suboptimal specimen viability (28% by 7-AAD) - interpret results with caution

Interpretation:  Definitive immunophenotypic evidence of an aberrant lymphoid population is not detected on a hypocellular specimen with suboptimal viability.  Flow cytometric interpretation may therefore not be representative.  Integrate with tissue investigations.

Comment:  Please see scanned Flow Cytometry Report for detailed flow cytometric analysis.

Flow Cytometry report Accession No.:  H20-2622 from Dr. H.Tsui at Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, 2075 Bayview Ave., Toronto, ON, M4N 3M5.

